# A longitudinal study of bike infrastructure impact on bikesharing system performance in New York City

The sustainability of bikesharing systems depends on the bicycle network connectivity and accessibility. However, studies of bike lane infrastructure investment impacts of bikesharing ridership have been limited to station-level ridership for supporting resource allocation decisions for bike-share operators. City planning agencies also need to forecast and analyze bike share demand in order to make investment decisions of bike facilities over time. To measure the marginal cost of building bike lanes on bike share demand at a network-wide level over time, an autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity (ARCH) model with autoregressive (AR) disturbance is proposed to capture system-wide bike ridership. The model is applied to investigate the relationship between the bike-share average daily trip counts and the total length of bike lanes in New York City (NYC). Our results show that the installation of one additional mile of bike lanes in NYC can lead to an average increase of 102 bikesharing daily trips. Spatial heterogeneity is addressed by two market segments by borough (Manhattan vs Non-Manhattan), which indicate that the improvement of bike lanes has a significant impact on bikesharing ridership in Manhattan, which is 285 more trips generated with one miles bike lane built in Manhattan; but is not as effective outside of Manhattan. In addition, model results show that there are 135 and 13 more trips generating per day when one more bikesharing sharing station is added in Manhattan and Non-Manhattan, respectively. We demonstrate that this model, as opposed to the previous study in the literature developed at the station level, can provide new insights into system-level causality and temporal lag characteristics. When considering whether a city agency should invest a set of bike lanes immediately or to stage them over multiple weeks, the “discount rate” for ridership benefits is estimated via proposed model for different types of investment. Results of investment scenario analysis show that there is a higher effective “discount rate” for the ridership benefits from the front-loading all the investment.
